66304 - PBAC feature (#396)
valtimo-platform/valtimo-documentation: using-valtimo/access-control/backend-access-control.md

# Backend-end access control
This section describes how Policy Based Access Control (PBAC) can be configured in the backend.

## Autodeployment

> PBAC can be configured in the backend using auto-deployment. 

Reviewer: Maybe mention why you would want this (e.g. to make sure the same permissions that have been configured in development and test are also deployed to production).

The deployment will scan for files on the classpath matching either `**/*.role.json` or `**/*.permission.json` for respectively role- and permission configurations.

Every deployment file for PBAC represents a changeset, much like Liquibase. 

> These files contain a `changesetId` that should be unique over all deployment files that use changesets (currently only PBAC).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These files contain a `changesetId` that should be unique over all deployment files that use changesets (currently only the Authorization module).
```

> The contents of a changeset cannot change as long as the `changesetId` does not. A change to an existing changeset can only be made when the `changesetId` also changes.

Reviewer: I don't think we have documentation on changesets yet, which was added as part of this feature. I think this should be added as a separate page, and it should describe how to overwrite what's in the database with autodeployment.

Reviewer: Created a new one just for this, and it'll also include updating this page.

Changes made to the deployment files of PBAC will result in a full recreation of existing role- or permission configuration.

## Configuring roles
The roles should be defined before permissions can be deployed. The file contains only a list of role names next to the mandatory `changesetId`.

`all.role.json`:
``` json
{
    "changesetId": "pbac-roles-v1",
    "roles": [
        "ROLE_USER",
        "ROLE_ADMIN"
    ]
}
```

## Configuring permissions
The example below defines 2 permissions:
- A user with `ROLE_ADMIN` can `VIEW` any document
- A user with `ROLE_USER` can `VIEW` documents where:
  - the name of the document-definition equals `loans`
  - the `height` of the loan is less than 20000

`document.permission.json`:
``` json
{

>     "changesetId": "pbac-documents-v1",

Reviewer: I wouldn't use this as a changeset ID. This might give the impression we support versioning for access control, which we do not.
